---
layout: post
title: "Paper notes: Block oriented programming: automating data-only attacks"
tags:
  - paper notes
  - exploitation
  - data-only
  - control-flow integrity
---
Title: Block oriented programming: automating data-only attacks<br>
PDF: <a href="/public/aec7ba2a6395ec82632e323f0aef2295.pdf">aec7ba2a6395ec82632e323f0aef2295.pdf</a>

Proposes a system for automating the process of constructing exploitation payloads
that can bypass control-flow integrity and related mitigations. The target binary is
lifted to an (unspecified) intermediate representation and its CFG is recovered. Each
basic block is "summarized" using symbolic execution into a set of constraints with
changes to memory and registers. These summarized data for each basic block also include
any calls or jumps.

The desired payload is specified in a pseudo-C language (SPloit Language - SPL ;) which
is translated into an again unspecified (another? the same as the target binary?)
intermediate representation. At the next step, non-surprisingly, the summarized basic
blocks are matched to SPL IR statements. A matched basic block must satisfy changes to
registers and/or calls specified by the corresponding SPL IR statement. The target binary
is scanned for "dispatcher" blocks that enable the connection of the basic blocks
identified in the previous step. Dispatchers are found using concolic execution.
Concretization of symbolic addresses is used to initialize memory before the execution
of a previously matched basic block, guiding execution through the shortest path to
the next matched basic block. The identified paths must satisfy the constraints of the
basic blocks they traverse.

Finally, the execution trace of the identified paths is encoded as a series of writes
for the target binary (the exploit payload). A bug giving an arbitrary write primitive
is assumed of course.

Update (2018/11/02): The authors have released the
<a href="https://github.com/HexHive/BOPC">accompanying code</a>, and, not surprisingly, it
is based on <a href="https://github.com/angr/angr">angr</a>.
